in Gaza the Hamas controlled Health
Ministry says that more than 10,000
people have been killed it says they've
been killed by Israeli air strikes since
the conflict erupted one month ago now
this number has not been independently
verified yesterday the Israeli Defense
Forces released what they said was
evidence that Hamas is using hospitals
and schools as cover for its attacks
Israel says that it has intensified its
operations in Northern Gaza in circled
City and split the north of the strip
off from the
south all right for more now I'm joined
by DW special correspondent a Ibrahim
she is in Jerusalem for us tonight A
Israeli media they have reported that
troops are set to enter Gaza City within
hours what more do we
know we have confirmation that there's
now a northern Gaza and a southern uh
Gaza Brent that the strip has been
effectively divided we know that uh
Israeli troops have reached the
shorelines of Gaza and as you mentioned
encircled Gaza City you know one of the
if not the most populated spot in the
entire Gaza Strip and so as a result in
the coming days we can expect uh Israeli
troops and Hamas fighters to engage in
close and uh direct uh combat now we
know that Hamas maintains a network of
tunnels that spreads throughout the
entire strip but the Israeli military
has always maintained that particularly
in the north uh that's where a huge
concentration of that network is and
that's why for the time being uh the um
the uh the ground offensive has uh been
and is uh concentrated in the northern
part this is coming uh with a lot of uh
casualties the uh Hamas controlled Gaza
Health Ministry has said that the death
toll has now surpassed 10 ,000 these
numbers as we keep mentioning on the
show cannot be independently uh verified
uh independent Watchdogs are not allowed
in the strip and the few journals that
have been allowed in Gaza have been so
far embedded with the Israeli Defense
Forces but given that this very tiny
very densely populated uh piece of land
has been under near constant bombardment
for uh more than two weeks now we can
expect that the death toll is very high
but again we are not allowed in there
and it's very very difficult to get a
full picture of what is going on uh on
the ground in Gaza at the moment the
Israeli military it says that they are
allowing a one-way Corridor for
civilians to head south I mean is that a
safe option for people to flee from the
fighting well the Israeli military has
been calling on uh gazan civilians to
move from the north to the South for a
while now our viewers may remember that
first uh call for evacuation uh where
the deadline was was initially just a
couple uh uh of days which was deemed
Impossible by International observers um
and so we know that a lot of gazin have
indeed made it South an estimated
800,000 have evacuated uh but there
remains around 300,000 in the northern
part part of the Gaza Strip and there
are many reasons for that what we keep
hearing from people is that they just
don't feel safe going to the South
because there have been targets struck
in the South as well we've also heard
reports that on the way from the
northern part to the southern part uh
people have also sometimes been struck
uh by uh uh Rockets um and and air
strikes there's also you know the the
the the reality is that there might not
be people who who are able to evacuate
and communication has been cut off a
number of times uh you know uh to the
Gaza Strip so it may also be that people
are just not getting that information
with internet and Telecommunications
being so unreliable it's something that
we also have to deal with you know
trying to get in touch with our
colleagues every day on the ground it is
very very difficult to to be in touch
with people in Gaza right now and so all
of this comes together to make this a
very very difficult situations for
civilians even if that route were were
safe and we unfortunately have reports
that people as I mentioned have been
struck trying to get from the north to
the South DW special correspondent a
Ibrahim reporting tonight from Jerusalem
a thank
you Egypt has reopened itsa border
crossing with Gaza for foreign Nationals
and medical evacuees but the vast
majority of gazans remain trapped with
nowhere in the territory truly
safe in Gaza the human cost of this
conflict keeps on mounting as the small
strip of land continues to be pummeled
the Israel Defense Forces say they
opened a humanitarian Corridor this
allowed Palestinians to evacuate the
north where the bombardments are heavier
though it seems that nowhere in the
strip is truly
safe an Israeli air strike hit a
residential building in a densely
populated District of KH Yunis in
southern
Gaza they are all children not a single
adult all children the whole building
collapse on them these are your goals
Netanyahu may God take revenge on
you hundreds of thousands of displaced
garans are now living in makeshift
shelters in the south of the strip as
Israel intensifies its
bombardments for this Hospital employee
just one missile strike took everything
away I was working my shift at the
hospital when the casualties started
arriving shock I saw among those marted
where my wife Mayon as well as our four
children the youngest of which was 8
months
old it's an all too familiar story for
many living in the Gaza Strip the war
between Israel and Hamas shows no sign
of letting
up and it's the people on the ground who
are paying the heaviest price of
all the Jordanian Air Force has dropped
V medical equipment to a hospital in
Gaza as supplies in the strip run
dangerously low the air drop was made to
the Jordanian Hospital in Gaza City and
contained medical supplies as well as
food Jordan's King says the operation
was carried out in coordination with
Israel's Defense Forces there are
growing calls for more humanitarian aid
for
Gaza the Rafa Crossing from Gaza into
Egypt has now reopened after it was
shuttered for days I asked Ahmed al-
mandari of the World Health Organization
in Cairo how much of a difference this
will make in fact you know as you said
today uh RAF Crossing will be opened in
fact but I don't have details on how
many people will be Crossing but
definitely it will include people who
are you know carrying um uh different
nationalities as well as you know
casualties and sick patients uh this
will definitely definitely help those
people who are injured you know severely
they need further care outside Gaza
Strip um in addition to that you know it
will it will give hope for hundreds and
thousands of people who are seeking
Medical Care outside Gaza but still I
must say this is really beyond beyond
the high demand and the need of the
people inside G it should be really
opened all the time with no
interruption Elan Levy is a spokesperson
for the office of the Prime Minister of
Israel Benjamin Netanyahu
the Hamas run Health Ministry today said
that the death toll in Gaza has now
exceeded 10,000 and that many of the
victims are civilians my colleague geard
elfers asked him how the Israeli
government is justifying that first of
all as you mentioned these are the
numbers we're getting from the Hamas
Health Ministry Hamas the same
organization that on October 7th burned
beheaded raped butchered mutilated its
way through southern Israel and then
lied about it to the international media
the same Hamas that when an Islamic
Jihad rocket hit the alahi hospital
immediately claimed it was an Israeli
air strike that killed hundreds of
people the sun came up in the morning it
turned out it wasn't an Israeli air
strike the hospital was still sing and
the death toll was much lower so we cast
out on the Hamas numbers we also note
that
Hamas whether it's exactly 10,000 it
must be
thousands Hamas does not distinguish
between civilian casualties and Military
casualties we've been clear our goal in
this war is to go after the perpetrators
of the October 7th Massacre and make
them pay we expect the death toll to
rise from Hamas terrorists the people we
are targeting now what's the problem
Hamas has a deliberate and
well-documented strategy of embedding
itself in civilian areas in tunnels
under people's homes its main
headquarters are located underneath the
shifa hospital in Gaza that's why Israel
has been taking more action than any
army in history and I'm happy for your
fact Checkers to check me in order to
get civilians out of Harm's Way 20,000
phone calls placed with residents of
Gaza 1.5 million leaflets over 10
million recorded messages and SMS for
three weeks urging the residents of
Northern Gaza get out of the way
temporarily for your own safety the Army
has also opened humanitarian corridors
for residents to evacuate during the
insul of Gaza and just the other day we
had Hamas firing mortars at the Israeli
soldiers facilitating the humanitarian
evacuation so we're doing everything we
can to get civilians out of Harm's Way
Hamas is doing everything it can to keep
them there and we hold Hamas fully
accountable fully accountable for any
harm to civilians as a result of its
decision to declare war on the 7th of
October and then its decision to try to
use civilians as human
Shields now Anthony blinkin the US
Secretary of State has pushed for a
humanitarian ceasefire during his visit
to several Middle East countries and
several major un bodies issued a joint
statement demanding uh a ceasefire will
Israel agree to a ceasefire at some
stage and when is will that
be we will not consider any ceasefire no
matter how temporary without the return
of our hostages there was a ceasefire on
the 6th of October Hamas broke it it
brutally murdered, 1400 people and then
retreated back to the Gaza Strip a
ceasefire would literally let Hamas get
away with murder it would leave it free
to do it again this time with 240
hostages inside Gaza and Hamas is
threatening to to do a second October
7th and a third and a fourth as many as
it takes in order to wipe out the state
of Israel and murder every man woman and
child in this country so we will not
cease fire until we achieve our war
games our War uh goals of destroying
Hamas so it can never again hurt our
people and never again perpetrate what
it did on October 7th the biggest
Massacre of Jew hoca war in in a in a in
a moment but Israel has stated you
mentioned the hostages Israel has stated
many times that the release of all
hostages is also one of your principal
War aims but do you think an allout
military assault is a good way to
ensuring they all come
home I wish we could send Hamas an email
and politely ask them to releve the
hostages but that wasn't going to happen
our assessment is the hostages will only
be brought back through pressure through
military pressure and diplomatic
pressure we saw four hostages released
by Hamas because of international
pressure on Hamas and its supporters and
we saw one is Israeli hostage who was
freed by soldiers who went in and
grabbed her out and our assessment is
that only more pressure on Hamas is
going to advance the goal of bringing
our hostages home who hostages who I
should mention include over 30 children
under the age of 18 there's a baby who
was 9 months old at the beginning of
this war and is now 10 months old there
are children who were literally orphaned
because Hamas murdered their parents in
front of them and took them hostage
inside Gaza Strip so we're doing
everything we can to bring them home and
we expect the whole world to put all
possible pressure on Hamas and its
supporters to releasee our hostages
immediately and
unconditionally you mentioned the whole
world there are you worried with because
you do not agree to any kind of
ceasefire that you will lose
international
support we know that we're fighting the
most moral fight there is to dismantle
the terror organization that perpetrated
the biggest Massacre of Jews since the
Holocaust and is promising to do it
again and again until they murder all of
us we know that we're the good guys and
we know that history is on our side and
we know that good Nations have lined up
behind us like Germany who Vice
Chancellor from the greens not exactly a
party known traditionally for supporting
Israel says Hamas must be destroyed even
Senator Bernie Sanders says there can be
no ceasefire with Hamas because its goal
is to eliminate the state of Israel and
murder everyone so we know that people
of conscience are on our side they
understand that the right of
self-defense means eliminating the
terror group that perpetrated this
attack and that any anyone who wants to
take the side of the baby burning
beheading terrorists of October 7th
they're on the wrong side of history and
history will judge them I'd like I'd
like to come back what you just said
elimate eliminating Hamas Israel is
currently fighting a conventional war
against insurgents if you will and that
has failed many times in the past in
Iraq in Afghanistan for example how
convinced are you really that you Israel
can win this war against h
this is an asymmetric War it's an
asymmetric war between the professional
Army of a democratic State and a
terrorist militia that has embedded
itself inside civilian areas in order to
maximize casualties but we have no
choice we cannot leave Hamas in power
because if we leave Hamas in power it
will attack our people again October 7th
wasn't the first date in history history
didn't start then it's been two decades
that Hamas has been terrorizing the
people of Israel firing tens of
thousands of rockets against us
launching raids inside Israel abducting
people and October 7th was the straw
that broke the back of a very strong
camel we cannot leave Hamas in place and
I think the world understands and
secretary blinkin said this as well from
his own conversations with Arab
governments in the region that a terror
organization that perpetrates a massacre
like that cannot be allowed to remain in
power a moment longer we will not go
back to 6: a.m. on October 7th that will
not
happen Israel's Army says Gaza is now
split into two what's the goal
here the goal is to totally eliminate
the entirety of hamas's terrorist and
Military infrastructure we're going
after every Commander every terrorist
every tunnel every rocket launcher all
of it now we've completely encircled
Gaza and despite that have still allowed
several humanitarian corridors for
civilians to leave for three weeks we've
been urging civilians in Northern Gaza
to get out of the way temporarily for
their own safety and most of them have
only a small minority remain in the
north just the other day Hamas attacked
the humanitarian Corridor that Israel
was facilitating they fired mortars at
our soldiers who are trying to get
Palestinian civilians out of Harm's Way
because we're doing everything we can to
keep civilians safe Hamas is doing
everything it can to keep them In Harm's
Way so the goal now is to close in on
Hamas we will destroy its tunnel Network
we will destroy its arsenals and it will
terrorize our people no
longer speaking about the tunnel Network
are you convinced that for example if
the the hostages are being held in this
tunnel Network that you can spare them
that you can get them out out
alive I can't comment on specific
operational matters but that is a top
priority in our war to bring the
hostages home and safe to their families
those who still have families to return
to that
is aen Ley there spokesman for the
office of the Prime Minister of Israel
thank you very much for taking the time
to talk to
us earlier I talked to MIM abusar in Kan
Yunis in southern Gaza before the start
of the war he worked as a professor of
political sciences at the University in
Gaza City he told me about his
experiences um I'm staying now in canun
south of Gaza with some of my relatives
since October 13th on that day the
Israeli Army ordered the Palestinians in
the north of Gaza and Gaza City to
evacuate to the south of Gaza Valley
which
is and ra and I have been living with my
relatives for the past three weeks
almost now I'd like to come back to
Hamas which is of course governing Gaza
are they offering any assistance for
civilians or is the population just
reliant on assistance and services of
the eight
organizations well very much uh most of
the Palestinians who have evacuated
their homes and north of Gaza to the to
the South are either with their
relatives like myself or the
overwhelming majority of them are
residing at hwa run schools and uh uh
institutions where hwa is responsible
for uh uh most of their most of the
assistant that they are giving them food
uh uh water and they are offering also
sanitation services so basically Hamas
is not doing anything right right now uh
uh um either onwa is in charge on other
International organizations or uh uh the
relatives are very much helping uh their
their friends and relatives who
evacuated to their to the south of Gaza
now you're a political scientist let's
talk about the support that Hamas uh had
and maybe still has inside Gaza and
among the local
population well that is to be honest
with you that is not uh there is no way
of measuring Palestinian support for
Hamas at the current moment you have to
take into consideration that there are
more than 10,000 Palestinians have been
killed since this Israeli bombardment
against Gaza a civilian population has
started and also more than 20,000 uh
people have been injured in addition to
the uh destruction that has been
inflicted on many areas of the Gaza
Strip so there is no way of knowing
whether people are still supporting
Hamas in a big way or not and uh there
are also no channels of uh uh expressing
any of any voices criticizing Hamad if
there is any criticism against Hamas
it's done within in our closed
circles now Israel's aim is um as Israel
said many times to fully destroy Hamas
is that realistic you think
it doesn't seem to me that is a very
realistic goal uh for a number of
reasons first of all it's been a month
since Israel has started its war against
Hamas and to the best of my knowledge
Israel has succeeded only in eliminating
some top leaders of the military wing of
Hamas and the Israelis are also having
very trouble a lot of troubles in
controlling large areas of with with the
ground operation and second uh uh uh
when we talk about Hamas we are not
talking only about uh uh the the
military wing of Hamas we're talking
also about Hamas as a a Grassroots
organization which has entrenched itself
among the population in the Gaza so when
you talk about an ideology and about an
idea it's it's very hard to destroy it
or to eliminate it completely but I
think uh Hamas has been weakened by the
ongoing Israeli bombardment and uh and
also uh uh uh the ground operation that
has been carrying on uh for for a number
of days now the political scientist Mima
abusada there talking to us from Gaza
thank you very much for your
time